# Syntax of a Java Program

To understand the syntax of java program, we must first understand the overall structure of the java program.

In java, the main building blocks of any program is called a function. A function is a block of code that performs some specific task. For example: Function to calculate the area of a square.

Notice that in order to calculate any of those values, we need some input values first. Input values like side length of a square. In our case it's length and breadth. These input values are called parameters of a function. We can pass these parameters as input to our function and obtain the output result area that we want.

Let's see an example of how a function looks like:
```java
    /** Syntax **/
    [access_modifier] [keyword] [return_type_keyword] [method_name]([parameter_one], [parameter_two], ...) {
        // code here
    }
    /** Example **/
    public static double squareArea(double length, double breadth) {
        return length * breadth;
    }
```
This is how a function looks like. The name of the function here is squareArea. It's a java naming convention to write any function name in camelCase. A function must be followed by parenthesis inside of which we pass parameters. Parameters are values we provide to the function to obtain a desired result. After paranthesis, we have an open and a closed curly braces. Inside these curly braces, we write our logic or code.

Every function contains a return type. Return type can be any data type. In our case, it's 'double' because we are return the product of length and breadth values, both of which are of double data type. We will be discussing about data types in our next lesson. For now, understand that if we are returning some values of a particular data type, then we must declare the return type to be equal to that data type. In case, we aren't returning any value in a function, simply make the return type as 'void'.

```java
void main() {
    // write your code here
}
```

We then move to the 'keyword' static. It is there to tell the JVM that the main method can be accessed without instantiating our class object. We will look into it once we dig deeper into Object Oriented Programming part of the tutorial.

Finally, each function has an access modifier associated with it. In our case, we have defined it as 'public', meaning it is available for use everywhere in our program. We will discuss about access modifier in later lessons.

Here, we call function as method. A method is simply a function enclosed within a class. Every java function is enclosed within a class as shown below:

```java
class SquareArea {
    public double squareArea(double length, double breadth) {
        return length * breadth;
    } 
}
```
The naming convention of writing class name is to use PascalNamingConvention. Meaning, every first letter in a word is written in uppercase letter. For us, it is letter 'S' and letter 'A'.
A class can be understood as a container which contain all the related products. Imagine a basket of sweets. The basket is the container which contain all variaties of sweets.
Similarly, java class is a container which contains all forms of related methods.

Every java program has a main method within a Main class. We will learn about all of these topics in detail throughout our tutorial series.