# Hello World Program Breakdown

## Structure of Project plane
In the left we have a project plane. Within our project we have src folder. Within that we have our base package containing the file Main.java. All java files must have a .java extension.
***
## Package & Package name
```java
package com.javatutorial
```
The first line of our program contains package name. Just like classes is used to group related functions, a package is used to group related classes.

By default convention, the base package name is the domain name of your company in reverse. Meaning, if your domain is saurabh.com, name your package as com.saurabh. Does that mean you must have a domain on the internet? Not really. It's just a namespace for our classes. So, for now we will use com.javatutorial
***
## Main Class
```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        // write our code here
        System.out.println("Hello World");
    }
}
```
This class is belongs to the package com.javatutorial. Every java statement ends with ';'. Inside the Main class we have main method. This method returns nothing so our return type is 'void'. The main method in our program should always be static. Then we have public access modifier which means that this method is accessible from all parts of our program.

After main we have parenthesis containing parameters of String array with the name args. It is used to take input from console. It's not important for now. Then we have curly braces inside of which we have a comment.

After that, we have 'System' class defined in the package java.lang which has a member field 'out'. This member field is of type 'PrintStream' which is another one of the class defined in java. It contains member method 'println' which demands a parameter to print. So we supply it with String parameter "Hello World".
***
## Comments
Comments are not run by the java compiler or program. They are there for us humans to tell each other what we have done in this program, something quite necessary when building large projects. There are two ways to write comment in Java:

1. Using double forward slash to write single line comment.
```java
 // I am a single line comment
```
2. Using forward slash followed by double star and ending with forward slash. Then anything between the two stars will be considered a comment. This is useful for writing multiple line comments.
```java
/*
I
am
a
multiline
comment.
*/
```
***